README.md, before:

# Flask-Okta

A simple Flask CRUD application with secure [Okta authentication](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/07/23/build-a-simple-crud-app-with-flask-and-python).

## Requirements

- Install [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- Run `pip install virtualenv` on command prompt.

## First things first

- You need Okta, to store user accounts and provide easy authentication and authorization. Create an [Okta developer account](https://developer.okta.com/signup).
- In your Okta dev account, create an app (under `Applications`) of type `Web` and set the redirect uris to `http://localhost:5000/oidc/callback`.
- Also, get an API token under `API`.
- Be sure to enable self-registration on the `Classic UI` under `Directory`.
- Create a `client_secrets.json` file (with the details that follow) at the root of your project folder.

```json
{
  "web": {
    "client_id": "{{ OKTA_CLIENT_ID }}",
    "client_secret": "{{ OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET }}",
    "auth_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/v1/authorize",
    "token_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/v1/token",
    "issuer": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default",
    "userinfo_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/userinfo",
    "redirect_uris": [
      "http://localhost:5000",
      "http://localhost:5000/oidc/callback"
    ]
  }
}
```

## Setup

- Run `git clone https://github.com/Rwothoromo/Flask-Okta.git` and `cd` into the project root.
- Run `virtualenv ../flask-okta-venv --python=python3` for Mac/Linux.
- Run `source ../flask-okta-venv/bin/activate` for Mac/Linux.
- Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- Run `createdb <flask_okta_db>` and `createdb <test_flask_okta_db>`.
- Create a `.env` file at the project root and add the following:

```env
export SECRET_KEY='<some_secret_value>'
export OKTA_AUTH_TOKEN='<okta_auth_token>'
export OKTA_ORG_URL='<okta_org_url>'
export CLOUDSQL_USER='<cloudsql_user>'
export CLOUDSQL_PASSWORD='<cloudsql_password>'
export CLOUDSQL_DATABASE='<cloudsql_database>'
export DB_HOST_IP='<db_host_ip>'
export DB_HOST_PORT='<db_host_port>'
export CLOUD_STORAGE_BUCKET='<cloud_storage_bucket>'
export FLASK_ENV='development'
export FLASK_APP='blog'
```

- Run `source .env` to set the above variables.
- Run the following to set up the database/migrations:
  - `python manage.py db init` to create a migration repository.
  - `python manage.py db migrate` to update the migration script.
  - `python manage.py db upgrade` to apply the migration to the database.
- Run `python manage.py runserver` to run on the default ip and port.
- View the app on `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`.

## Extra

If removing unnecessary files:

- Run `find . | grep -E "(\__pycache__|database|\migrations)" | xargs rm -rf`.

Commit message:

Include IP address for the app hosted on GCP.

README.md, after:

# Flask-Okta

A simple Flask CRUD application with secure [Okta authentication](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/07/23/build-a-simple-crud-app-with-flask-and-python).
Visit [the app](http://35.239.48.56/) hosted on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)!

## Requirements

- Install [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- Run `pip install virtualenv` on command prompt.

## First things first

- You need Okta, to store user accounts and provide easy authentication and authorization. Create an [Okta developer account](https://developer.okta.com/signup).
- In your Okta dev account, create an app (under `Applications`) of type `Web` and set the redirect uris to `http://localhost:5000/oidc/callback`.
- Also, get an API token under `API`.
- Be sure to enable self-registration on the `Classic UI` under `Directory`.
- Create a `client_secrets.json` file (with the details that follow) at the root of your project folder.

```json
{
  "web": {
    "client_id": "{{ OKTA_CLIENT_ID }}",
    "client_secret": "{{ OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET }}",
    "auth_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/v1/authorize",
    "token_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/v1/token",
    "issuer": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default",
    "userinfo_uri": "{{ OKTA_ORG_URL }}/oauth2/default/userinfo",
    "redirect_uris": [
      "http://localhost:5000",
      "http://localhost:5000/oidc/callback"
    ]
  }
}
```

## Setup

- Run `git clone https://github.com/Rwothoromo/Flask-Okta.git` and `cd` into the project root.
- Run `virtualenv ../flask-okta-venv --python=python3` for Mac/Linux.
- Run `source ../flask-okta-venv/bin/activate` for Mac/Linux.
- Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- Run `createdb <flask_okta_db>` and `createdb <test_flask_okta_db>`.
- Create a `.env` file at the project root and add the following:

```env
export SECRET_KEY='<some_secret_value>'
export OKTA_AUTH_TOKEN='<okta_auth_token>'
export OKTA_ORG_URL='<okta_org_url>'
export CLOUDSQL_USER='<cloudsql_user>'
export CLOUDSQL_PASSWORD='<cloudsql_password>'
export CLOUDSQL_DATABASE='<cloudsql_database>'
export DB_HOST_IP='<db_host_ip>'
export DB_HOST_PORT='<db_host_port>'
export CLOUD_STORAGE_BUCKET='<cloud_storage_bucket>'
export FLASK_ENV='development'
export FLASK_APP='blog'
```

- Run `source .env` to set the above variables.
- Run the following to set up the database/migrations:
  - `python manage.py db init` to create a migration repository.
  - `python manage.py db migrate` to update the migration script.
  - `python manage.py db upgrade` to apply the migration to the database.
- Run `python manage.py runserver` to run on the default ip and port.
- View the app on `http://127.0.0.1:5000/` or `http://35.239.48.56/` for Google Cloud Platform.

## Extra

If removing unnecessary files:

- Run `find . | grep -E "(\__pycache__|database|\migrations)" | xargs rm -rf`.
